**Voice control of command line interface using Google speech
recognition**

**Overview**

This project has the end goal of making a free software tool that allows
control of a command line interface through voice commands.

**Background**

Users with motor disability are often unable or severely handicapped to
use their hands to interact with a computer. Therefore, using tools that
require heavy use of the hands such as the command line interface is
unfeasible or impossible for such users. There has been software
developed to control the command line and other tools using speech
recognition (<http://vocola.net/>). However, their performance remains
sub optimal. Additionally, they often need the usage of commercial
software such as Dragon NaturallySpeaking
(<http://www.nuance.com/dragon/index.htm>). This project aims at
creating an open source customizable software that replicates (or
extends) some of the capabilities of Vocola using Google speech API
instead of Dragon NaturallySpeaking. The advantage of using Google
speech API besides being free of cost is that through the usage of deep
learning techniques, Google has been able to reduce the state-of-the-art
speech recognition error rate by over 40% in comparison to competitors
such as Dragon NaturallySpeaking. Hence, taking advantage of such
breakthroughs is one of the motivations of this project.

An alternative to the above proposed scenario would be for the group
involved in this project to extend the already existing Vocola software
to make it work with Google speech recognition instead of Dragon
NaturallySpeaking.

**Deliverables**

-   a software tool that allows customized control of the command line
    interface by translating speech input into command line commands

-   Ability to use macros to transform speech input into specific input
    commands

-   usage of Google speech recognition API so the software remains free
    for potential users

-   GUI interface for customizing the software to the specific needs of
    an end user
